Adding experimental toolkit downsample APIs (#537)
timescale/docs: api/asap.md

# asap_smooth()  <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag><tag type="experimental">Experimental</tag>

> The [ASAP smoothing alogrithm](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.00983.pdf) is designed create human readable graphs which preserve the rough shape and larger trends of the input data while minimizing the local variance between points.  The `asap_smooth` hyperfunction provides an implementation of this algorithm which takes `(timestamptz, double precision)` data and returns an ASAP smoothed [`timevector`][hyperfunctions-timevectors].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [ASAP smoothing alogrithm][asap-algorithm] is designed to create 
human-readable graphs that preserve the rough shape and larger trends 
of the input data, while minimizing the local variance between points. 
The `asap_smooth` hyperfunction provides an implementation of this 
algorithm that takes `(timestamptz, double precision)` data and returns 
an ASAP smoothed [`timevector`][hyperfunctions-timevectors] line.
```

> ## Required Arguments
> |Name| Type |Description|
> |---|---|---|
> | `ts` | `TIMESTAMPTZ` | Column of timestamps corresponding to the values to aggregate |
> | `value` | `DOUBLE PRECISION` |  Column to aggregate. |
> | `resolution` | `INT` |  Approximate number of points to return.  Intended to represent the horizontal resolution in which the aggregate will be graphed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Required arguments

|Name| Type |Description|
|-|-|-|
|`ts`|`TIMESTAMPTZ`|Column of timestamps corresponding to the values to aggregate|
|`value`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|Column to aggregate|
|`resolution`|`INT`|Approximate number of points to return.  Intended to represent the horizontal resolution in which the aggregate is graphed.|
```

## Returns

> |Column|Type|Description|
> |---|---|---|
> | `normalizedtimevector` | `NormalizedTimevector` | A object representing a series of values occurring at set intervals from a starting time.  It can be unpacked via `unnest` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`normalizedtimevector`|`NormalizedTimevector`|An object representing a series of values occurring at set intervals from a starting time. It can be unpacked via `unnest`.|
```

> ## Sample Usage
> For this examples assume we have a table 'metrics' with columns 'date' and 'reading' which contains some interesting measurment we've accumulated over a large interval.  The following example would take that data and give us a smoothed representation of approximately 10 points which would still show any anomolous readings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sample usage
This example uses a table called `metrics`, with columns for `date` and 
`reading` that contain measurements that have been accumulated over 
a large interval of time.  This example takes that data and provides a 
smoothed representation of approximately 10 points, but that still shows 
any anomalous readings:
```

> 
> ```SQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql
```

SET TIME ZONE 'UTC';
CREATE TABLE metrics(date TIMESTAMPTZ, reading DOUBLE PRECISION);
INSERT INTO metrics
SELECT
    '2020-1-1 UTC'::timestamptz + make_interval(hours=>foo),
    (5 + 5 * sin(foo / 12.0 * PI()))
    FROM generate_series(1,168) foo;

```

> ```SQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql
```

SELECT * FROM toolkit_experimental.unnest(
    (SELECT toolkit_experimental.asap_smooth(date, reading, 8)
     FROM metrics));
```

> ```output

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The output for this query:
```sql
```

          time          |        value
------------------------+---------------------
 2020-01-01 01:00:00+00 | 5.3664814565722665
 2020-01-01 21:00:00+00 |  5.949469264090644
 2020-01-02 17:00:00+00 |  5.582987807518377
 2020-01-03 13:00:00+00 |  4.633518543427733
 2020-01-04 09:00:00+00 |  4.050530735909357
 2020-01-05 05:00:00+00 |  4.417012192481623
 2020-01-06 01:00:00+00 |  5.366481456572268
 2020-01-06 21:00:00+00 |  5.949469264090643
```

> [hyperfunctions-timevectors]: timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/function-pipelines/#timevectors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[asap-algorithm]: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.00983.pdf
[hyperfunctions-timevectors]: timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/function-pipelines/#timevectors
```
